
A few years ago, in an era when I was wrestling with one of my more
intense bouts of depression (an era where a “good” day would be one with
“only” one or two panic attacks), grounding exercises were worth their
weight in gold. One such exercise, which became somewhat of an obsession
to this day, was the “Ultimate Geography Flashcards” package on Memrise.
Long story short, it contains pretty much every territory in the world
with some international-geopolitical relevance: UN-recognized countries,
non-UN-recognized territories (Taiwan, Palestine, Somaliland), breakaway
regions (Transnistria, Abkhazia), contested territories (Jammu and
Kashmir), occupied territories (Golan Heights, Northern Cyprus),
“overseas possessions” (French Guiana, Gibraltar), obscure Pacific
islands, and more.<!--more-->

It made me realize that, whereas the public schools I went to mostly
treated geography as a set of memorization exercises (you have 20
minutes to label all of the countries of Africa!), I honestly believe
that it could be used as a window into some of the most important
historical events—active and frozen conflicts, international disputes,
etc.—which explain how the world got the way it is today.

So, with that in mind, today I decided to map out all the territories in
the world I could think of that represent “remnants” of colonialism.
Colonialism is often treated as something in the past, that we’ve “moved
on” from, but then… what is Puerto Rico? Why does Liberia’s flag look so
similar to the United States’? Why is there a region of South America
that is part of the EU and uses the Euro? Why are there regions of India
where Portuguese, French, and other European languages are still spoken?
Why do so many countries outside of South Asia have a humongous South
Asian population—Singapore, Fiji, Guyana? Why are there random
Dutch-speaking white communities in Sri Lanka? German-speaking white
communities in Jamaica?[^1]

## The Map

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/d/u/0/embed?mid=1sYF9ON0-6zXKSdxbgKD_vOCf_Olxrr0&ehbc=2E312F" width="100%" height="480"></iframe>

## Relevance to the World Today

## References

<div id="refs" class="references csl-bib-body hanging-indent">

<div id="ref-orizio_lost_2001" class="csl-entry">

Orizio, Riccardo. 2001. *Lost White Tribes: The End of Privilege and the
Last Colonials in Sri Lanka, Jamaica, Brazil, Haiti, Namibia, and
Guadeloupe*. Simon and Schuster.

</div>

</div>

[^1]: The latter two cases come from a super fascinating book by
    Riccardo Orizio, a journalistic account of his attempts to find
    these communities, called *Lost White Tribes: The End of Privilege
    and the Last Colonials in Sri Lanka, Jamaica, Brazil, Haiti,
    Namibia, and Guadeloupe* Orizio (2001)
