
I was reading Ward Churchill this morning and figured I should write out
the chain of implications here:

“One cannot read \[history\] and, without entering into active
falsehood, afterwards claim ‘not to know’ what has been/is being done to
Native North America. Knowledge, of course, associated as it is with
power, demands action. To possess knowledge and ignore its demands is to
nullify claims of innocence.” (*Acts of Rebellion*, xvii).

So, to me, here’s the chain:<!--more-->

1.  My privilege has allowed me, among many many other benefits, an
    absurd amount of “education” (putting aside issues on what
    constitutes “education” or “being educated”) on what those with
    power in the US are doing both to the rest of the world and to the
    oppressed inside the country itself.

2.  This education has resulted in knowledge not just of “historical
    facts” but of the
    <a href='https://dailyatrocity.us/' target='_blank'>vast range of
    atrocities</a> either being perpetuated as we speak or, having been
    perpetuated in the past, **resonating** destructively through
    various societies/communities/nations as we speak.

    **At minimum** the causal chain here operates via
    <a href='https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Path_dependence' target='_blank'>path
    dependence</a>, e.g. in the form of the miserable present-day
    outcomes of our prior colonial/neocolonial policies and actions, but
    often it shows up as just the blatantly-direct and obvious (i.e.,
    foreseeable not only in hindsight but actually foreseen,
    acknowledged, and cheered-on by nearly all Americans at the time)
    material result of prior acts, for example when
    <a href='https://www.newyorker.com/news/news-desk/the-vietnam-war-is-still-killing-people' target='_blank'>thousands
    of Vietnamese, Cambodian, and Laotian people die every year</a> due
    to the millions of \[previously-unexploded\] landmines we
    <a href='https://www.npr.org/transcripts/169076259' target='_blank'>indiscriminately
    scattered</a> across the landscapes of their communities in the
    1960’s and 70’s — for which, incidentally,
    <a href='https://books.google.com/books?id=9wkMCAAAQBAJ&lpg=PA71&ots=8v3e15qmfZ&dq=%22noam%20chomsky%22%20landmines%20laos%20us%20corporations&pg=PA73#v=onepage&q=%22noam%20chomsky%22%20landmines%20laos%20us%20corporations&f=false' target='_blank'>the
    US Department of Defense refuses to provide schematics or technical
    whitepapers</a> they have in their possession that would enable
    their easy defusal.

3.  The education resulting from the privilege mentioned in (1) has also
    allowed me to learn basic ethical principles like the distinction
    between
    <a href='https://books.google.com/books?id=OZOmSTWZNdcC&pg=PA207&lpg=PA207&dq=peter+singer+acts+of+omission&source=bl&ots=glJlBoxbXC&sig=ACfU3U1FNcglipKbIltw9Docy5us3vYZGw&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjrh5mooMjqAhWzOn0KHZleASkQ6AEwDHoECAoQAQ#v=onepage&q=peter%20singer%20acts%20of%20omission&f=false' target='_blank'>acts
    of comission and acts of omission</a>, and in particular the shaky
    ground on which “standard” American liberalism stands when it claims
    that only the former are admissible when making ethical judgements —
    “sure, Native Americans/Palestinians/Yemenis/Black
    Americans/Kurds/etc. may be in a ‘tough’ situation, but I didn’t
    \[perform the direct act of comission that\] put them in their
    situation, so it’s not my problem.” In other words, I didn’t
    physically place them in their concentration camps, and thus my
    hands are clean, so I will now return to my boozy brunch.

4.  The same education has allowed me to learn the \[extremely
    straightforward/unequivocal\]
    <a href='https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nuremberg_principles' target='_blank'>principles
    of the Nuremberg Trials</a>, developed by **American jurists**,
    which were used to justify the execution of Nazi war criminals but
    also (crucially) to establish
    <a href='https://books.google.com/books?id=3KCsDwAAQBAJ&pg=PA13&dq=Eure+Schuld+famous&hl=en&newbks=1&newbks_redir=0&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwiFtrfmkNvpAhWLo54KHd90DusQ6AEwAHoECAMQAg#v=onepage&q=Eure%20Schuld%20famous&f=false' target='_blank'>the
    guilt of **individual Germans**</a> who stood by and did not act to
    prevent the Holocaust

    \[Parenthetically: guilt that was subsequently cited as
    necessitating the
    <a href='https://www.jewishvirtuallibrary.org/german-holocaust-reparations' target='_blank'>payment
    of “reparations”</a> by Germany to the victims of the Holocaust,
    though strangely only Jewish victims — and moreover
    <a href='https://www.amazon.com/Holocaust-Industry-Reflections-Exploitation-Suffering/dp/1781685614' target='_blank'>only
    those Jewish victims supporting Israel’s regime of ethnic cleansing
    and apartheid</a> — ever seemed to qualify to receive them.\]

    \[Also parenthetically: the actions of the US in the first Persian
    Gulf War (see
    <a href='https://www.amazon.com/Fire-This-Time-U-S-Crimes/dp/1560250712' target='_blank'>this
    book</a>, written by a literal Attorney General of the United
    States), combined with the effects of the subsequent sanctions
    regime (here’s the New York Times
    <a href='https://www.nytimes.com/1995/12/01/world/iraq-sanctions-kill-children-un-reports.html' target='_blank'>reporting
    576,000 dead as of 1995</a>) and the current War in Iraq (for which
    I don’t think a link/citation is even necessary for anyone who has
    been alive during the past 20 years), easily puts the amount of
    suffering caused by the US in only my lifetime, in utilitarian terms
    at least, on a par with the Holocaust. And that’s only looking at
    one of the 80+ countries to which our military has “brought
    democracy and freedom” since WWII.\]

5.  To cite it one last time, this education enabled me to work through
    and understand the arguments of dozens of political theorists about
    <a href='https://www.gutenberg.org/files/7370/7370-h/7370-h.htm'>how
    adherence to the rule of law serves as a minimum requirement for a
    “just” society</a>, and to learn this while knowing about the
    thousands and thousands of instances — historical and ongoing —
    wherein the US has explicitly, perpetually, brazenly refused to
    adhere to any of the most basic principles constituting the rule of
    law (see (2)).

6.  Therefore, I would say, the minute any American with these same
    sorts of privileges — not just the already-mentioned education but
    also the
    <a href='https://www.bls.gov/news.release/pdf/atus.pdf' target='_blank'>leisure
    time</a> to learn about and discuss these subsequent points — drops
    the completely indefensible ethical pretense of liberalism, namely
    its pathological contention that one can only be judged on the basis
    of their acts of commission (“unless I personally ‘do’ something to
    someone I am not responsible for what happens to them”), they are
    literally ethically obligated to do whatever they can, by any means
    necessary, to weaponize this privilege towards destroying the
    atrocity machine, the
    <a href='https://www.marxists.org/archive/guevara/1967/04/16.htm' target='_blank'>“great
    enemy of mankind”</a> (in the words of one prominent individual who
    lost his life pushing back against it) that is the United States and
    its various institutions: the military, the police, corporations,
    financial institutions, government bureaucracies, racial
    hierarchies, norms around gender/sexuality/ability, and so on.

As a corollary, by the way, I’d say that anyone trying to tamp down the
anxiety of “white guilt”, by just tossing any of the above points away
as if they aren’t completely obvious and unavoidable after about 15
seconds of thought, is just performing the classic self-deception that
(importantly!) constitutes only one of the two options available to us
as humans when we’re experiencing cognitive dissonance and feeling
compelled to resolve it: we can deny reality and pretend (despite all
easily-available evidence to the contrary) that the dissonant thought
we’re having isn’t true, or we can go out into the world and try to
change the material state of affairs — which does exist whether we like
it or not — that gave rise to that thought.

The former is easier and allows you to get back to your round of golf or
your Netflix reruns after only a few seconds of inconvenience, while the
latter takes generations and generations of ignominious and
unavoidably-violent and depressing work and self-sacrifice, but if you
actually want to be a “good person” who makes the world a less shitty
place, rather than just a person who everyone in your country club says
is a “good person”, you have no choice and no escape but to choose the
latter option.
